                           Numbers Corpus
                            Release 1.1

              Center for Spoken Language Understanding


UPDATED: 02 August 2000


This document describes the file naming conventions used 
for this distribution and gives a brief description of the
various file formats used.

File Naming Convention
----------------------
Each filename in the corpus (other than the documentation)
encodes information about the call number, utterance type,
and file type.  A typical filename will look like:

	NU-1214.firstname.wav

The "NU" prefix indicates the corpus name, i.e. Numbers.
The number between the "-" and the first "." is the call
number.  Call numbers are described below.  The string
between the first and second "." is the utterance type. 
The following utterance types are in this corpus:

  phone		Phone number
  streetaddr	Street number as taken from an address
  zipcode	Zipcode utterance
  other1	Any other number that is not one of the 
		above. There may be several "other?" 
                utterances.  Additional ones will be 
                identified as "other2", "other3", etc.

The final, three letter, extention indicates the file type.
The following types are in this distribution:

  wav		The speech data
  txt		The orthographic transcription
  phn		The phonetic transcription

File Formats
------------
There are three file formats used in this corpus (other
than the documentation).  The .wav file format used is the
RIFF standard file format. This file format is 16-bit
linearly encoded.

The "txt" file is simply an ascii text file.

The "phn" file contains a time aligned phonetic
transcription.  The first two lines of the file are
considered the header.  The first line defines the "frame
rate", which is the number of milliseconds per frame.  Each
line after the header looks like this:

    0 203 i:

The two numbers indicate the starting and stopping frame,
respectively, that corresponds to the label, which is the
third field. By using the "frame rate", the correspondence
between the phonetic labels and the waveform can be
determined.
